1.

First we can generate a vector that represents the displacements from the NPC's
position from the position of the point. We can then use the dot product of
those two vectors to determine if the point lies behind or in front of the NPC.
A dot product of 0 is a special case which means the point lies directly to the
left or right of the NPC.

Note that the dot product can also be represented as a • b = ||a||||b||cosθ.
The magnitudes will also be positive so it's really the angle between the
vectors (cosθ) that will determine if the point is behind or in front of the
NPC.

Another way to envision this is imagine the 2D coordinate system as a top-down
view. The NPC's position represents where it is standing and the vector
represents the NPC is 'facing'. The derived vector represents the displacement
to get from NPC position P to point X -- this is almost like the direction the
NPC could face to see the point head on. And when discussing the dot product, it
really only is the cos of the angle between these two vectors that matters. When
thinking about it as a 'real-world' example, if a human served as the NPC, the
magnitude of V doesn't matter but more so the whether the point X is in the
field of vision, which is really just the angle between the human and the point.

Because the magnitudes of the vectors don't matter, this is why it may be common
to just use unit vectors in this scenario.

2.

NPC position p = [-3 4] and direction vector v = [5 -2]

a. x = [0 0]
[5 2] • ([0 0] - [-3 4]) = 23

The point is in front of the NPC.

b. x = [1 6]
[5 2] • ([1 6] - [-3 4]) = 16

The point is in front of the NPC.

c. x = [-6 0]
[5 2] • ([] - [-3 4]) = -7

The point is behind the NPC.

d. x = [-4 7]
[5 2] • ([-4 7] - [-3 4]) = -11

The point is behind the NPC.

e. x = [5 5]
[5 2] • ([5 5] - [-3 4]) = 38

The point is in front of the NPC.

f. x = [-3 0]
[5 2] • ([-3 0] - [-3 4]) = 8

The point is in front of the NPC.

g. x = [-6 3.5]
[5 2] • ([-6 3.5] - [-3 4]) = 0

Can either be in front of or behind depending on how we want to handle this case.
